---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E1: UI Basics Technical Essay
date: 2020-09-10
--
For the first WOD, BrowserHistory1, I had a difficult time, but only because I was having a lot of screencasting issues. I had to redo the workout a total of 7 times, but because I had to complete it so many times, I was able to complete it very quickly at the end and finish it within 13 minutes and 19 seconds. I was able to follow along and do the workout without referring to the screencast at first because I was already familiar with the steps to creating the .html file. One thing that I found helpful was that I had previously taken notes for the assigned readings, HTML and CSS, so when I forgot a code, I would try to refer to my notes instead of the screencast and would try to base my coding off of the examples that was given during those readings. The main issue that I was having with this assignment was screencasting it. I had to use three different screencasting applications, Window's 10 bulilt-in game bar, ActivePresenter, and Zoom, so I ended up wasting a lot of time and spent the first 3 hours just trying to figuring out the best method of recording my screen. With the Window's 10 built-in game bar, it would only record my active screen so I was not able to record my full screen. Then with the ActivePresenter, it took too long to export the videos, so at the end, I found that using Zoom to record my screen was the best option for my case because it was able to film my entire screen as well as export my recording within a decent time. Through this assignment, I learned a lot about screencasting, which was a space that I was unfamiliar with before. I also feel that I have mastered the foundations to creating a basic webpage and am now more comfortable with creating .html files. 
For the second WOD, I had forgot all the requirements to making a style.css so I did have to go back and look through my notes. I at first attempted to do it without watching the screencast, but I did get stuck on parts so for those parts I would refer to the screencast. I did this workout a total of five times and repeated it multiple times so I would have a better understanding of it and since I knew I had weaknesses in creating CSS files. For my last attempt, I was able to complete it in 8 minutes and 28 seconds. One error that I continually and carelessly made was that I would forget to add the semicolons at the end. One helpful thing that I discovered for syntax errors similar to that is that VS Code will actually tell you if there are some errors in your code. This could be found in the terminal and is on the far left tab labeled "problems." 
Lastly for the third WOD, I had to heavily rely on the screencast because my CSS knowledge was very limited so I did not know how to do certain CSS functions. One CSS property that was helpful was the padding property which created more spacing inside the containers.
