---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E3 Performing WODs Technical Essay
date: 2020-09-29
---

The Invoice1 WOD was a workout where we had to create a table for a sales receipt. It is a dynamic web page therefore all the numbers involved have to be manually changed by us as the developer of that webpage. For further details of the tasks for the WOD, it can be found at: https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/060.expressions-operators/experience-invoice1.html

My experience performing this WOD was that I had to perform it 6 times because I stumbled alot upon certain areas and it took me a while to get the hang of it. I found that I was able to conduct tasks 1 through 7 fairly quickly, but formatting the table was the most difficult part for me. I ran into a lot of errors initially when attempting to code the table and forgot to put the back tick after the document.write( and also did not close it properly in the correct place. Another area of difficulty was properly formatting the totals on the bottom of the table. I didn't realize that a <script> tag was necessary before each of the document.write.

To prepare for this WOD, I did as I normally which is refer to my notes from the screencast lecture as well as the assigned readings. Though I did find that the notes from the assigned lecture materials did not provide enough examples to what our tasks were for this WOD.

To be more prepared for the next WOD, I will do some of the examples from the lecture screencast and assigned readings so that I can become more familiar with what is required for the WOD. Normally when I watch screencasts and read readings, I am more focused on writing down the content as notes instead of trying out of some of the examples, so hopefully if I do try out more of the examples, it can help build my coding skills and make me less reliant on referring to my notes. 
