---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E4 Progress in Programming Essay
date: 2020-11-09
---
My programming skills have greatly improved in the following ways:
	My prior programming knowledge was very limited as I only worked with HTML and CSS before, so now I have expanded upon my knowledge on HTML and CSS and have also learned about JavaScript programs. I only previously created websites through the assistance of other applications like Adobe Dreamweaver and SeaMonkey, so this class pushed my expertise so that I can create a basic HTML, CSS, and Javascript file in under an hour and I can create functioning, basic websites. 

I need to work on the following to improve my programming skills:
  The most difficult concept that I had a hard time understanding was how servers work and creating a server. I understand the basics and the overall framework to creating a server, however, I get confused with all the details that we have to consider when creating a server like the setup for processing a form with MVC or processing multiple inputs. Another area that I have to work on regarding my programming skills is that I tend to refer heavily upon my notes and examples for reference so its hard for me to perform certain tasks off the top of my head.
  
I can do the WODs without looking at the screencast solutions first.
	When I do my WODs, I will try to do all the parts that I know first and if there are parts that I am confused on, I will first try to refer to my notes to see if there are any examples of how to perform that certain task, but if there isn't and I am unsure of how to perform that task then I will refer to the screencast solution. So I don't automatically view the screencast solution at first, I will try it by myself and with the ones that I am unsure on I will then refer to the screencast. 

The labs have helped me to learn and I am able to complete them with confidence.
	I do agree with this statement and find that the labs are very helpful in my understanding, however, I do get a bit confused following along at times, but I think the WODs are able to help round out my confusion as it will allow me to perform tasks that are related to the lab, but I am tasked with doing all the tasks individually.

I feel ready I am ready to work on the next stage of complexity in programming (building small web applications like Assignment 1).
	I think my assignment 1 still needs some more finetuning, but it's at least functionable and I think I will be able to progress to the next stage of programming.

I think the class can be improved to help my learning in the following ways:
	One aspect of the class that I think can be improved upon is having a more updated schedule of the due dates for the different assignments that we have in this class I often find that I am sometimes confused when things are due because there's no set schedule so it's hard for me to plan in advance when I have to do certain tasks. I understand that the movement of our class is dependent upon the pace that the class is working at and that the schedule often changes, but perhaps if there was at least some sort of list that shows the order of assignments that are coming up and it doesn't have to have dates yet, but at least having a place where we can see the order of assignment that are incoming can help aid the confusion of when things are due. 

These are things that work really well for my learning in this class:
	I think that the WODS really help. It gives me the chance to push myself to build something from the ground up in a limited time frame. I also appreciate the screencasts for each module and the walkthrough for examples that it provides.
