---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E5 Reflecting on Assignment 2
date: 2020-11-28
---
<b>Provide a brief introduction to the assignment along with a link to this page for further details</b>
The main objective of assignment 2 was creating the login and registration page for our ecommerce site and updating the security of the website. When creating the login and registration page, there were a lot of small things to consider to ensure the user was inputting valid inputs when creating and logging into their account. After creating an account/logging in and "purchasing" some items, the invoice should show some sort of acknowledgement and personalized message that confirms the user's purchase.
The link for the E5 can be found on: https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/150.Assignment2/experience-Assignment2_retrospective.html
<br>

<b>What did you learn from this assignment?</b>
From this assignment, I learned a lot of things, but the main thing that I learned how to do was creating validation for logins and how the process of login and registration works. I learned about the usage of patterns for the validation of the login inputs.
<br>

<b>Did you work with a partner? Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to the assignment (including yourself).</b>
I worked individually on this assignment.
<br>

<b>How did you get help when you needed it? What did you need help with?</b>
When I needed help, the first resource that I would go to is Google so often I would find help with my issues on websites like w3 resources, stack overflow, and other related sites. I would also try to see if there were examples similar to the task and objective that I was trying to get to. I would also get help from other students. I mainly needed help with setting up the validation for the registration and applying the patterns. 
<br>

<b>How was developing this assignment different than assignment #1?</b>
The first assignment was difficult since everything was new and there were a lot of things that we had to initially create like the homepage, products page, and invoice page and the overall design and interface of it. With assignment 2, I built it off of my assignment 1, so that helped with the process of conducting the assignment and this assignment had less to do with design and more to do with functionality and creating the login/registration page. This assignment came with its own set of challenges, but I would view it as easier than assignment 1 because I at least had something to start off with.
<br>

<b>Estimate the % of time you spent (a) thinking about how to do something, (b) writing code (but do not include testing, (c) testing and debugging</b>
I would say 25% thinking/planning what to do, 50% writing code, and 25% testing and debugging. I have a bad habit of not thinking through what I am doing and just try to write code that will hopefully work out.
<br>

<b>Describe what worked well with this project? What did not work well?</b>
What worked well was that my site was functional and working. I think I did a good job at laying out the validation for the login/registration. What did not work well is that design was, it was very simple and I could have added more things like a greater personalization of the invoice.
<br>

<b>If you could go back in time and do things differently, what would you do differently?</b>
If I could go back in time, I would have definitely have completed more things earlier. I would also have tried to be more detailed in my comments. I think I did an adequate job of explaining what I was trying to do with my codes, but during the process of this assignment, my comments became more of an afterthought and sometimes I would forget what my original intention was. 
